The following is the expected syllabus for PSC University Assistant (This is the present PSC Degree Level Exam Syllabus).
There will be 10 topics for 10 marks each for the exam. The following are the topics.
 
1. Quantitative Aptitude
Numbers-Test of Divisibility - H.C.F & L.C.M - Simplification - Ratio & Proportions - Percentage - Interest - Time & Work -Time & Distance - Area- Volume - Calendar - Clocks - Trains - Trains Problems on Age - Etc.

2. Mental Ability and Test of Reasoning
Calculation & Logic - Coding & Decoding - Classification - Synonym - Antonym - Letter & Number Series - Odd Man Out - Analogy - Common Sense Test - Alphabetical Arrangement of  Words - Date and Calendar - Sense of Direction - Etc.

3. General Science
Common Scientific Facts - Important Scientific Phenomena - Other Basic Facts in the Field of Science- Etc

4. Current Affairs
Important Words, National and Regional Events Related to the Political and Scientific fields, Sports, Cinema and Literature etc.

5. Fact about India
Geographical Facts - Physical Features - Climate - Soils - Rivers - Famous Sites - Etc 
Demography - Economic and Social Development - Poverty Alleviation - Economy and Planning- Etc
History of India - Period from 1857 to 1947 – National  Movement - Etc.

6. Fact about Kerala 
Geographical Facts - Physical Features - Climate - Soils - Rivers - Famous Sites - Etc
Renaissance of Kerala Important Events/Movements/Leaders Brahmananda Swami Sivayogi, Chattampi Swami, Sree Narayana Guru, Vagbhatananda, Thycaud Ayya, Ayya Vaikundar, Polikail Yohannan ( Kumara Guru ), Ayyankali, Pandit Karuppan, Mannathu Padmanabhan,  V.T. Bhattathirippad, Dr. Palpu, Kumaranasan, Vakkom Moulvai, Blessed kuriakose Elias Chavara, Etc

7. Constitution of India and Civil Rights
Basic Facts - Features - Citizenship - Fundamental Rights & Duties - Directive Principle - Union Government - Legislature - State Executive - Union Territories - Apex Courts - Comptroller and Auditor General - Public Service Commissions and Other Important Offices - Important Amendments - Etc. Rights - Right to Education - Human Rights - Human Rights Commission - Right to Information - Information Commission - Social Audit - Lokayukta - Ombudsman - Women Empowerment - Women’s Commission - Legislation against Child Labor and Atrocities Against women and Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes - Etc.

8. General English
Grammar - Agreement of Subject and Verb - Confusing Adjectives and Adverbs - Comparison of Adjectives - Correct usage of Articles - Prepositions - Direct and Indirect Speech - Active and passive Voice - Correction in Sentences - Etc Vocabulary - Gender - Singular and Plural - Synonyms - Antonyms - One word Substitute - Problem Concerning Words - Idioms and their Meanings- Etc.

GIt Edited
9. Social Welfare Schemes & Measures
Andyodaya Anna Yojana, Balika samridhi Yojana, Bharat Nirman, Indira Awaas Yojana, Integrated Child Development Scheme, Jawahar Rozgar Yojana, Kudumbasree, Mahila Samridhi Yojana, National Food for Work Programme, IRDP, NREGP, Prime Minister’s Rozgar Yojana, Rural Development Pradhan Mantri Adharsh Gram Yojana, Samagra Awaas Yojana, Sampoorna Grameen Rozgar Yojana, Vamiki Ambedkar Awaas Yojana, Landless Employment Guarantee Programme Etc;

10. Information Technology and Cyber Laws
Fundamentals of Computers - Internet Etc - Cyber Laws.


arun_09kr
azp854
